openrouter-deepseek/query_based/frontmatter.md, before:

---
# frontmatter
path: "/tutorial-openrouter-deepseek-with-hyperscale-or-composite-vector-index"
title: RAG with DeepSeek using Couchbase Hyperscale and Composite Vector Index
short_title: OpenRouter DeepSeek RAG with Query Vector Index
description:
  - Learn how to build a semantic search engine using Couchbase and OpenRouter with Deepseek using Hyperscale and Composite Vector Index.
  - This tutorial demonstrates how to integrate Couchbase's vector search capabilities with OpenRouter Deepseek as both embeddings and language model provider.
  - You'll understand how to perform Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) using LangChain and Couchbase.
content_type: tutorial
filter: sdk
technology:
  - vector search
tags:
  - Hyperscale Vector Index
  - Composite Vector Index
  - Artificial Intelligence
  - LangChain
  - Deepseek
  - OpenRouter
sdk_language:
  - python
length: 60 Mins
alt_paths: ["/tutorial-openrouter-deepseek-with-hyperscale-vector-index", "/tutorial-openrouter-deepseek-with-composite-vector-index"]
---

Commit message:

Refactor environment sample files and update Jupyter notebooks for improved clarity and consistency. Removed hardcoded Couchbase settings in .env.sample files and updated markdown content in notebooks to enhance readability and accuracy of tutorial instructions.

openrouter-deepseek/query_based/frontmatter.md, after:

---
# frontmatter
path: "/tutorial-openrouter-deepseek-with-hyperscale-or-composite-vector-index"
title: RAG with DeepSeek using Couchbase Hyperscale and Composite Vector Index
short_title: RAG with DeepSeek using Couchbase Hyperscale and Composite Vector Index
description:
  - Learn how to build a semantic search engine using Couchbase and OpenRouter with Deepseek using Hyperscale and Composite Vector Index.
  - This tutorial demonstrates how to integrate Couchbase's vector search capabilities with OpenRouter Deepseek as both embeddings and language model provider.
  - You'll understand how to perform Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) using LangChain and Couchbase.
content_type: tutorial
filter: sdk
technology:
  - vector search
tags:
  - Hyperscale Vector Index
  - Composite Vector Index
  - Artificial Intelligence
  - LangChain
  - Deepseek
  - OpenRouter
sdk_language:
  - python
length: 60 Mins
alt_paths: ["/tutorial-openrouter-deepseek-with-hyperscale-vector-index", "/tutorial-openrouter-deepseek-with-composite-vector-index"]
---
