claudeai/query_based/frontmatter.md, before:

---
# frontmatter
path: "/tutorial-openai-anthropic-couchbase-rag-with-hyperscale-or-composite-vector-index"
title: RAG with Claude using Couchbase Hyperscale and Composite Vector Index
short_title: Claude AI RAG with Query Vector Index
description:
  - Learn how to build a semantic search engine using Couchbase, OpenAI embeddings, and Anthropic using Hyperscale and Composite Vector Index.
  - This tutorial demonstrates how to integrate Couchbase's vector search capabilities with OpenAI embeddings and use Anthropic as the language model.
  - You'll understand how to perform Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) using LangChain and Couchbase.
content_type: tutorial
filter: sdk
technology:
  - vector search
tags:
  - Hyperscale Vector Index
  - Composite Vector Index
  - Artificial Intelligence
  - LangChain
  - OpenAI
sdk_language:
  - python
length: 60 Mins
alt_paths: ["/tutorial-openai-anthropic-couchbase-rag-with-hyperscale-vector-index", "/tutorial-openai-anthropic-couchbase-rag-with-composite-vector-index"]
---

Commit message:

Update frontmatter and tutorial content for clarity and accuracy
- Revised the short title in frontmatter for consistency with the tutorial's focus.
- Updated the Anthropic API link in the RAG_with_Couchbase_and_Claude notebooks for accuracy.
- Enhanced introductory sections in the search-based tutorial for better clarity and streamlined instructions.

claudeai/query_based/frontmatter.md, after:

---
# frontmatter
path: "/tutorial-openai-anthropic-couchbase-rag-with-hyperscale-or-composite-vector-index"
title: RAG with Claude using Couchbase Hyperscale and Composite Vector Index
short_title: RAG with Claude using Couchbase Hyperscale and Composite Vector Index
description:
  - Learn how to build a semantic search engine using Couchbase, OpenAI embeddings, and Anthropic using Hyperscale and Composite Vector Index.
  - This tutorial demonstrates how to integrate Couchbase's vector search capabilities with OpenAI embeddings and use Anthropic as the language model.
  - You'll understand how to perform Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) using LangChain and Couchbase.
content_type: tutorial
filter: sdk
technology:
  - vector search
tags:
  - Hyperscale Vector Index
  - Composite Vector Index
  - Artificial Intelligence
  - LangChain
  - OpenAI
sdk_language:
  - python
length: 60 Mins
alt_paths: ["/tutorial-openai-anthropic-couchbase-rag-with-hyperscale-vector-index", "/tutorial-openai-anthropic-couchbase-rag-with-composite-vector-index"]
---
